MYRTLE BEACH, SC (WMBF) - Eight years ago today, Hurricane Matthew made landfall as a Category 1 hurricane in McClellanville, South Carolina and it brought devastating impacts across the Grand Strand and Pee Dee. Hurricane Matthew, 8 years later (WMBF) HURRICANE MATTHEW Matthew brought an end to a long stretch of hurricane-free years in the Grand Strand and South Carolina. It was the first hurricane to make landfall in South Carolina since Hurricane Gaston in 2004. Hurricane Matthew (WMBF) At its peak, Matthew was a Category 5 hurricane, with winds of 160 mph in the central Caribbean. Thankfully, Matthew weakened to a Category 1 hurricane with 75 mph winds at the time of landfall. Matthew officially made landfall near McClellanville at 10:45 a.m. on Oct. 8. The center of the storm then crossed directly over Myrtle Beach several hours later. Flash flooding developed through the morning as torrential rains fall across the entire region. At 11 a.m., the eye of Matthew wobbles onshore near McClellanville. Shortly after 12 p.m., the National Weather Service in Wilmington issued its first-ever flash flood emergency for Horry County as flooding became widespread and life-threatening. Flood waters claimed the lives of two in Florence County and another in Dillon County. The center of Matthew made its way up the coast and passed directly over Myrtle Beach at 2 p.m. The highest storm surge since Hurricane Hugo roared ashore, demolishing dunes and the Springmaid and Surfside Beach piers. Hurricane Matthew 2016 (WMBF) As the storm pulled away, hurricane-force wind gusts hit the Grand Strand. Gusts of 60 to 70 mph blew through the Pee Dee. Trees came down, the power went out and at the end of the day, 834,000 people were in the dark. Rainfall totals reached 10 to 17 inches in many areas, with the highest total in the state coming from Dillon where the official total reached 17.22 inches - a 1,000-year rainfall. THE AFTERMATH On Oct. 9, a region was in shock and going underwater. The Lumber and Waccamaw rivers were quickly overwhelmed by Matthew’s rains and started to rise. Nichols, Latta, Mullins and Lumberton quickly headed into a flooding disaster. Flooding in Conway from Hurricane Matthew (WMBF) On Oct. 10, the Lumber River shattered the old flood height by five feet. Interstate 95 was shut down and some residents were rescued from their rooftops. Residents of Nichols were stunned by how fast the water comes up as the entire town is engulfed. The flood disaster continues along the Lumber River on Oct. 11, while the Waccamaw started to rise. The Waccamaw River rose to 18 feet which was recording flood stage until hurricane Florence arrived two years later. BY THE NUMBERS 355,000 displaced citizens. 1,929 homes damaged or destroyed 25 breached dams 1,979,308 cubic yards of storm debris 866,000 household power outages Copyright 2024 WMBF. All rights reserved.