Powerful and deadly Hurricane Michael made landfall Wednesday October 10, 2018, near Mexico Beach, Florida, pulverizing homes, snapping trees and leaving hundreds of thousands powerless With 155 mph winds at landfall, Michael was nearly a Category 5 storm that smashed records as the strongest ever to roar onto the state's exposed Panhandle. It was also the strongest October hurricane on record to make landfall anywhere in the United States. “This morning, Florida’s Gulf Coast and Panhandle and the Big Bend are waking up to unimaginable destruction,” Florida Gov. Rick Scott said Thursday morning. “So many lives have been changed forever. So many families have lost everything. … This hurricane was an absolute monster.” The forecast path Although weakening, Michael continued to rampage through the Southeast on Thursday before racing offshore on Friday. Flash flooding and tornadoes were possible in the Carolinas and Virginia on Thursday. Projected path of Michael: Potential flash flood risk Top wind speeds Michael made landfall as a 155-mph, Category 4 storm, making it the third-strongest hurricane on record to hit the U.S., when measured by barometric pressure. By wind speed, it was the fourth-strongest hurricane to make landfall on U.S. shores. Michael's biggest wind gusts: Power outages Roughly 800,000 customers were without power in the Southeast on Thursday due to Michael's ferocious winds. The vast majority of outages were in Georgia, Florida and Virginia. Counties reporting outages due to Michael, Wednesday — Friday: Hurricane Michael damage, path, wind speed by the numbers Gas shortages The biggest storms Michael will be remembered as one of the worst storms to hit the U.S., and will surely have its name "retired" by the World Meteorological Organization next year. The other disastrous storm this year, Hurricane Florence, will likely also have its name retired. The most powerful hurricanes to hit the continental U.S. since 1950: Hurricane categories Hurricane Michael made landfall with winds of 155 mph, making it a strong Category 4 storm on the Saffir-Simpson scale of hurricane intensity. It missed being a Category 5 by only 2 mph. What scale 1 to 5 looks like: How a hurricane forms