Mario Tama / Getty Images The Thomas Fire burns on a bluff in La Conchita, California, on Dec. 7, 2017. Many evacuation holdouts were forced to flee the small seaside town as the flames approached. Strong Santa Ana winds rapidly spread multiple wildfires across tens of thousands of acres, destroying hundreds of homes and other buildings. Los Angeles Frederic J. Brown / AFP/Getty Images A helicopter drops water over burning homes in the Bel Air section of Los Angeles as a huge plume of black smoke rises into the sky on Dec. 6, 2017 Santa Paula, Calif. Reuters Firefighters battle flames from a wind-driven brush fire in Santa Paula, California, on Dec. 4, 2017. Strong Santa Ana winds fanned multiple wildfires across the region, burning tens of thousands of acres and destroying hundreds of homes and other structures. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images Trees are seen through the haze at the burned-out Vista del Mar Hospital after the Thomas Fire swept through Ventura, California, on Dec. 6, 2017. Los Angeles Robyn Beck / AFP/Getty Images Smoke from the Skirball Fire rises above the 405 freeway near the Bel Air area of Los Angeles, Dec. 6, 2017. The fire forced the shutdown of the freeway near the world-famous Getty Center museum. Sunland, Calif. David McNew / Getty Images A resident holds a leaking hose as he tries to protect his burning property during the Creek Fire on Dec. 5, 2017 in Sunland, California. Sylmar, Calif. Jonathan Alcorn / REUTERS A weather vane is pictured against the flames on a ranch in Sylmar, California, during the Creek Fire in the San Fernando Valley north of Los Angeles, Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images Firefighters work to save burning houses along Linda Flora Drive during the Skirball Fire in Los Angeles, Dec. 6, 2017. The flames, spread by 25 mph winds, threatened multi-million dollar homes and the acclaimed Getty Center museum. Los Angeles Twitter @ThatRebecca A still image from video posted on Twitter by Vanity Fair reporter Rebecca Keegan shows flames along the 405 freeway near the Getty Center in Los Angeles. "Driving to LAX just as they're closing the 405 for this roaring hillside fire near the Getty exit. Car windows are hot. Stay safe, LA. – at J. Paul Getty Museum," she wrote. Sunland, Calif. David McNew / Getty Images A house burns during the Creek Fire on Dec. 5, 2017 in Sunland, California. Strong Santa Ana winds are rapidly pushing multiple wildfires across the region, expanding across tens of thousands of acres and destroying hundreds of homes and structures. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images John and Julie Wilson sort through the remnants of their burned-out home after the Thomas Fire swept through Ventura, California, on Dec. 6, 2017. Los Angeles Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images A man watches as the Creek Fire burns behind a hillside near houses in the Shadow Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles on December 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images Michael and Vonea McQuillam stand beside the ruins of their house, which burned to the ground during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles Reed Saxon / AP Flames from a wildfire work their way down a slope behind Leo Baeck Temple in Sepulveda Pass in the Bel Air district of Los Angeles, Dec. 6, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images Scorched rubble of the two-story Hawaiian Village Apartment complex after it burned to the ground during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images A house in flames during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Sylmar, Calif. Gene Blevins / REUTERS A horse which was left behind in Sylmar, California, after the Creek Fire broke out in the San Fernando Valley north of Los Angeles, Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images Local residents pass by a burning house during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images A firefighter hoses down flareups at the two-story Hawaiian Village Apartment complex that burned to the ground during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images A firefighter hoses down flareups at the two-story Hawaiian Village Apartment complex that burned to the ground during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Santa Paula, Calif. Reuters Flames are seen as a brush fire spreads in Santa Paula, California, in a Dec. 4, 2017 photo taken from social media. Sunland, Calif. David McNew / Getty Images The smoldering ruins of a house that burned in the Creek Fire on Dec. 5, 2017 in Sunland, California. Strong Santa Ana winds are rapidly pushing multiple wildfires across the region, expanding across tens of thousands of acres and destroying hundreds of homes and structures. Santa Paula, Calif. Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images The Thomas Fire burns along a hillside near Santa Paula, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Daniel Dreifuss / AP Greg Smith stands amid the ruins of his home after the Thomas Fire swept through Ventura, California, Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images A house is threatened by wildfire along Linda Flora Drive during the Skirball Fire in Los Angeles, near the Getty Center museum, Dec. 6, 2017. Sylmar, Calif. Gene Blevins / REUTERS A firefighting helicopter tries to make a water drop in heavy winds as houses burn in the Creek Fire in Sylmar, California, Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles Gene Blevins / REUTERS A home burns as dark smoke rises in the air from the Skirball Fire in a wealthy neighborhood on the west side of Los Angeles, Dec. 6, 2017. Mondos Beach Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images Heavy smoke covers the seaside enclave of Mondos Beach beside the 101 highway as flames reach the coast during the Thomas Fire near Ventura, California, Dec. 6, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images A scorched car outside the Hawaiian Village Apartment complex, which burned to the ground during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images A firefighter opens a gate to reach a house threatened by the Creek Fire, burning along a hillside near homes in the Shadow Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles on Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles KCBS A helicopter makes airdrops to fight flames threatening multimillion-dollar homes near the Getty Center museum in Los Angeles, Dec. 5, 2016. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images Firefighters battle strong winds as they try to save a house during the Thomas Fire in Ventura, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mike Blake / REUTERS A TV crew walks through smoke as they work covering a wind-driven wildfire in Ventura, California, Dec. 5, 2017. Sunland, Calif. David McNew / Getty Images A resident hoses a burning palm tree during the Creek Fire on Dec. 5, 2017 in Sunland, California. Sylmar, Calif. Jonathan Alcorn / REUTERS A firefighter walks through flames on a ranch during the Creek Fire in Sylmar, California, in the San Fernando Valley north of Los Angeles, Dec. 5, 2017. Santa Paula, Calif. Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images The Thomas Fire burns along a hillside near Santa Paula, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mark Ralston / AFP/Getty Images A family wears face masks as they walk through the smoke-filled streets after the Thomas Fire swept through Ventura, California, on Dec. 6, 2017. Fames from wind-whipped wildfires triggered the closure of a major freeway and mandatory evacuations in an area dotted with mansions. Sunland, Calif. David McNew / Getty Images A resident hoses down a burning structure during the Creek Fire on Dec. 5, 2017 in Sunland, California, as strong Santa Ana winds fanned multiple wildfires across the region. Ventura, Calif. Mike Blake / REUTERS The remains of homes that burned to the ground during a wind-driven wildfire in Ventura, California, Dec. 5, 2017. Los Angeles Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images Residents watch as the Creek Fire burns along a hillside near homes in the Shadow Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Mario Tama / Getty Images Firefighters in front of a home destroyed by the Thomas Fire on Dec. 5, 2017 in Ventura, California. Los Angeles Kyle Grillot / AFP/Getty Images The Creek Fire burns along a hillside near homes in the Shadow Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, Dec. 5, 2017. Sylmar, Calif. Gene Blevins / REUTERS The morning sun is blocked by thick smoke from the Creek Fire in Sylmar, California, Dec. 5, 2017. Smoke seen from space NASA The smoke from the Thomas Fire in Southern California could be seen from space. This image was taken from NASA's Terra satellite on Dec. 5, 2017. Ventura, Calif. Daniel Dreifuss / AP Flames and smoke shroud State Route 33 as a wildfire burns in Ventura, California, Dec. 5, 2017.